[MUSIC]
[SOUND] So
the Raspberry Pi has an operating system,
which things like Arduino did not.
So let's talk a little bit about what
you get from having an operating system.
The first thing you get is
really a user interface.
So Arduino,
it didn't have a real user interface.
Not native to it.
So what I mean by that is a user
can't sit at an Arduino and
do something, not unless you
write a program to that effect.
But if you just, out of the box,
if you get an Arduino there's
nothing you can do with it.
You can't say, well let me plug
into it and type into it and
write a letter on it or something like
that, right, a user can't use it.
You have to write code, and
then program it with that code, and
then that code maybe does something clever
and lets you interact with the device.
But it's all on you as a programmer
to build that code, right.
Without the code that the programmer
writes, a human can't use the thing.
It just sits there and
It doesn't do anything right.
Now, if you have an operating system,
the operating system itself
provides a user interface.
So it gives a way for a user,
a regular user to go sit there and
give commands to the computer and
do basic things, without writing any code.
The user can just sit there and do things
with a computer and get results out and
they don't have to write any code.
So that's one benefit of
having an operating system.
And this is one reason why
Raspberry Pi can be used in ways that
the Arduino can't.
Now on the other hand if that's what you
want to do maybe you should be using
a laptop or desktop not a Raspberry Pi.
That's another argument, but
you can sit down at a Raspberry Pi and
do things and interact with the machine
without having to write code.
So the user interface is basically
two types of user interface, oh and
I'll mention that the operating
system that we're
talking about here is some
type of Linux distribution.
Now the next module we'll talk
more fully about Linux and
about the Linux that's running, we expect
to be running on our Raspberry Pi.
But in general,
Linux operating system you're gonna
get two possible user interfaces okay.
This is actually true for
any operating system, but
in Linux it's very prevalent that
people use this text based interface.
So on the left you see the Text-based
interface, really simple interface.
Or simple yet complex.
Simple in the sense that
the bandwidth is pretty narrow.
You get a prompt, it says Raspberry Pi or
whatever it says over there.
And then it says dollar sign.
Then you can type.
So you as a user you type in your command.
You hit Enter and then it does
whatever the command says right.
If you wanna see the directory,
you would type in the appropriate command.
It'll show you the contents of the
directory, print them out to the screen,
and that'll be that, okay.
So that's the Text-based interface,
and so that's one way to go.
The other way is a Graphic interface,
a Graphic user interface that
you see over there on the right.
Now a graphic interface, this will
look probably more familiar to people.
All kinds of operating systems have this.
This is Linux, one possible
graphics user interface from Linux.
But this is basically similar to
what you would see in a Windows,
what you would see in a Mac OSX right.
The same type of interface.
Point and click, you got a mouse,
you click on things, it's graphic right.
You have icons, all that stuff,
pull down menus, all that.
So it's a Text-based interface,
no pull down menus, no nothing.
You'll note that this pull down on the top
file edit, but ignore that for a second.
That's not part of the interface,
the Text-based interface of
the operating system anyway.
Not in this sense.
So, you just type in your commands and
it prints out the results okay.
So, there are these two interfaces.
Now, [COUGH] yes, you type commands
directly into the Text-based and
use a point click
interface on the graphics.
Oh, before I go on,
one thing I'd just like to mention is,
you might ask why should I ever
go with a Text based interface?
Why not always go with
the graphic interface?
People are very used to
the graphic interfaces now.
I'll say this, the first reason why
people use the Text-based interface,
why it's even available,
is because these things started.
Linux came from Unix, and
Unix existed before graphic
user interfaces existed, okay?
So that's part of the reason why.
When I was an undergrad Text-based was I
mean I they had graphics interface but
text based is what I used right?
And it was much more difficult to use the
Graphic interface, especially remotely.
If you want to use it from home
it was a pain to do the Graphic
interface from home.
You couldn't in a lot of cases.
So you got used to
the Text-based interface.
But another good thing about the
Text-based interface now is that it gives
you more control, that is,
if you can memorize all the commands.
You can do all kind of things
to the operating system and
the Graphic user interface,
one thing about a Graphic user interface
even though it's easier to use, it doesn't
present you with all the possibilities.
Not in a convenient way.
So maybe there is,
the way you can think about an interface.
When you're making a Graphic user
interface you say look I can only put so
many things on the screen graphically for
a human to use.
So and the number of things that a human
can do with say Linux is a lot bigger than
the number of things I can put of
the screen for my Graphic user interface.
So they have to make a decision.
They say, look, this 10% of things,
we will put in the screen.
We'll have buttons for it, and
pull downs for it and so forth.
The other 90%, that won't be on the
screen, that won't be in the interface.
And if you want to do that other 90%,
you have to go through
hoops graphically to do it.
Lots of different complicated routes.
Where with the Text-based interface,
they just, oh all 100% of the features
are just right there for you.
Now you have to do a decent amount of
memorization because you have to memorize
the commands.
You can ask for help and
have books open and stuff like that but
it's not convenient unless
you have it memorized.
Now I've been using Linux based machines
for a long time so I have a lot of
the commands memorized, I'm very
comfortable using a Tex-based interface.
But we're gonna mostly in this class
stick with the Graphic interface,
just because it's easier for
people to get acclimated with,
although some things are easier to
do with the Text-based interface.
And when that's appropriate,
we'll bring that up in the course.
All right, file system.
So what I'm showing here is a way that
you might access the file system.
You've seen this okay.
You've seen something like this.
This is, using the Graphic user
interface that comes on Raspberry Pi and
is Linux, this is its file system
interface, what it looks like.
You see a bunch of folders,
you can double-click and see files.
This type of thing you're used to right.
You've seen this on any Windows or
Mac OS or whatever.
So, this and
you also get the same thing with Linux.
So, you can use this interface too.
But you don't have to,
you can use Text-based but
this is convenient and
people are used to it.
Sharing is very similar, you can create
files, directories, that sort of thing.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]